# Service Discovery

**Service discovery** is a method of identifying and accessing devices and services automatically on a network.

#### We have two types of Service Discovery:

- Client-side Service Discovery

- Server-side Service Discovery

As Kubernetes dynamically scales services up or down based on demand, the **service registry** is constantly updated with the latest information about available instances.

#### Service Registry

- The service registry maintains a list of available endpoints for various services.

- It is like a phone directory which constantly gets updated if someone changes their number.

## To understand these two...

Assume there is a social media microservices application which is running in K8s.

### Client-side Service Discovery

- let say in frontend service A wants to get in touch with service B.
- In this case the service A just needs to find the location of service B to get in touch.
- It will look up the loaction of service B in the service registry.
- Done. No load balancer is required.

### Server-side Service Discovery

- let say in frontend service X wants to get in touch with service Y.
- In this case the service X goes to a load balancer then load balancer then checks in the service registry then tells service X which instance has service Y.
- Done. Load balancer is required.

So, while both client-side and server-side service discovery achieve the goal of enabling dynamic communication between microservices, they do so through different mechanisms, each suited to different architectural needs and preferences.
