# 3.2 Handlers

- Ansible handlers are tasks that are triggered by other tasks and executed only if changes occur.
- They are commonly used to manage services, notifying them to restart or reload configuration only when necessary, ensuring efficient and controlled updates in Ansible playbooks.

## 3.2.1 Triggering Actions on Changes

They are commonly used to restart services or perform other actions only when necessary.

**Example of Using Handlers:**

```yaml
---
- name: Restart Nginx if Configuration Changes
  hosts: web_servers
  become: yes

  tasks:
    - name: Copy Nginx Configuration
      copy:
        src: /path/to/nginx.conf
        dest: /etc/nginx/nginx.conf
      notify: Restart Nginx

  handlers:
    - name: Restart Nginx
      service:
        name: nginx
        state: restarted
```

In this example:

- The playbook includes a task to copy the Nginx configuration file.
- The `notify: Restart Nginx` statement triggers the associated handler when the configuration file changes.
- The handler (`Restart Nginx`) restarts the Nginx service.

> Handlers are only executed if notified by tasks and ensure that specific actions are taken only when necessary.

## 3.2.2 Error Handling and Troubleshooting in Ansible

#### **Error Handling:**

Ansible provides various mechanisms for error handling, including the `ignore_errors` and `failed_when` options.

- **Ignore errors for a specific task:**

  ```yaml
  - name: Attempt a task and ignore errors
  command: /path/to/some_command
  ignore_errors: yes
  ```

- **Set a task as failed under certain conditions:**

  ```yaml
  - name: Fail the task if a condition is met
  command: /path/to/some_command
  failed_when: "'Error' in result.stdout"
  ```

#### **Troubleshooting:**

- **Debugging with the `debug` module:**

  ```yaml
  - name: Display Debug Information
  debug:
      var: some_variable
  ```

- **Verbose Mode:** Run Ansible with the `-v` or `-vv` option to increase verbosity and get more details during playbook execution.

These strategies help handle errors and troubleshoot issues effectively in Ansible playbooks.

---
