# Helm Repo

"helm repo" is a command-line interface (CLI) tool that allows users to interact with Helm chart repositories.

- Helm repositories are collections of packaged Helm charts that are hosted on a server.
- These repositories make it easy for users to discover, install, and manage applications on Kubernetes using Helm.

Here are some key commands and functionalities provided by the "helm repo" CLI:

1.  **helm repo add**: This command is used to add a new Helm chart repository to your local Helm configuration. It requires two arguments: the name of the repository and the URL where the repository is hosted.

    Example:

    ```bash
    helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
    ```

    - **bitnami** is a very popular repo.

2.  **helm repo list**: This command lists all the Helm repositories configured in your local Helm environment.

    Example:

    ```bash
    helm repo list
    ```

3.  **helm repo search**: This command allows you to search for Helm charts in the configured repositories based on keywords.

    Example:

    ```bash
    helm repo search mysql
    ```

---

4.  **helm repo update**: This command is used to update the local cache of Helm chart repositories. It fetches the latest information about available charts from the configured repositories.

    Example:

    ```bash
    helm repo update
    ```

5.  **helm repo remove**: This command removes a Helm chart repository from your local Helm configuration.

    Example:

    ```bash
    helm repo remove stable
    ```

6.  **helm repo fetch**: This command fetches the index file from a Helm chart repository.

    Example:

    ```bash
    helm repo fetch
    ```
