# Networking Policies and Security

## 1. Network Policies

- It provides a way to control the communication between pods.
- also allows to define the rules for incoming and outgoing traffic.

<u>**Key points about Network Policies</u> :-**

1.  **Selector-Based Rules:**

    - Network Policies use **labels** and **selectors** to define rules.
    - Pods that match the specified labels can communicate based on the defined rules.

2.  **Ingress and Egress Rules:**

    - **Ingress Rules:** Define incoming traffic to pods.
    - **Egress Rules:** Define outgoing traffic from pods.

3.  **Default Deny:**

    - By default, all incoming and outgoing traffic is denied. Network Policies follow a "default deny" approach, meaning that unless explicitly allowed, communication is not permitted.

4.  **Namespace Scope:**

    - Network Policies operate within the scope of a namespace. They allow you to define communication rules specific to a particular namespace.

5.  **Example Network Policy:**

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
    kind: NetworkPolicy
    metadata:
    name: allow-nginx
    spec:
    podSelector:
        matchLabels:
        app: nginx
    ingress:
    - from:
        - podSelector:
            matchLabels:
              role: frontend
        ports:
        - protocol: TCP
        port: 80
    ```

    - In this example, the policy allows incoming traffic to pods labeled with `app: nginx` from pods labeled with `role: frontend` on port 80.

6.  **Implementation by Network Plugin:**

    - To implement of Network Policies, network plugin is used by Kubernetes cluster.
    - Common network plugins that support Network Policies include **Calico**, **Cilium**, and **Weave**.

---

# Ingress Controllers

- It **handles incoming traffic**
- direct's it to the appropriate services based on rules defined in the Ingress resource.

Key points about Ingress Controllers:

1.  **Ingress Resource:**

    - Defines rules for external access to services within the cluster. Like routing and SSL setup.

2.  **Ingress Controller:**

    - Its job it impliment the rules defined in the Ingress resource.

3.  **Features:**

    - It enable **routing** based on hostnames and paths.
    - Supports **SSL/TLS termination**, this protocol allows secure communication with clients, then traffic is forwadded to services within the cluster over plain HTTP. **This simplifies certificate management**.
    - Handle's **load balancing** for incoming traffic, distributing requests among multiple pods of a service to ensure optimal utilization of resources.

4.  **Third-Party Ingress Controllers:**

    - While Kubernetes itself does not prescribe a specific Ingress Controller implementation, there are popular third-party options, each with its characteristics.
    - Examples include **Nginx Ingress Controller**, **Traefik**, **HAProxy Ingress**, and more.

5.  **Deployment:**

    - Ingress Controllers can be deployed as pods within the Kubernetes cluster or as external components depending on the chosen solution.
    - Many cloud providers also offer their own managed Ingress Controllers, which are automatically provisioned and configured when deploying a Kubernetes cluster on their platform.

6.  **Dynamic Configuration:**

    - Ingress Controllers dynamically update their configuration based on changes in the Ingress resources. This allows for flexible and dynamic handling of external traffic as services scale or change.

7.  **Web Application Firewall (WAF):**

    - Some Ingress Controllers, especially third-party ones, may integrate with Web Application Firewalls (WAFs) or provide WAF-like features for enhanced security.

8.  **Ingress Class:**

    - It allows admin to specify which Ingress Controller should handle the rules for a particular Ingress resource.

In summary, Ingress Controllers play a critical role in managing external access to services in a Kubernetes cluster. They interpret the rules defined in Ingress resources, handle routing, SSL termination, load balancing, and provide a way to configure external access to services in a flexible and dynamic manner.

---
