# **AWS Fundamentals**

### Understanding Key AWS Services for Infrastructure Provisioning:

1.  **EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud):**

    - Virtual servers for scalable computing in the cloud, enabling users to run applications and host services.

2.  **S3 (Simple Storage Service):**

    - Object storage service designed for storing and retrieving any volume of data securely and cost-effectively.

3.  **VPC (Virtual Private Cloud):**

    - Isolated virtual networks within the AWS Cloud that allow users to define their own network configuration, providing enhanced security and control.

4.  **IAM (Identity and Access Management):**

    - Service focused on securely managing access to AWS resources by defining and enforcing user permissions and policies.

5.  **RDS (Relational Database Service):**

    - Managed database service that simplifies database setup, operation, and scaling for relational databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL, and SQL Server.

6.  **Lambda:**

    - Serverless computing service that enables the execution of code in response to events without the need for dedicated infrastructure.

7.  **Route 53:**

    - Scalable and highly available domain name system (DNS) web service, providing reliable and cost-effective domain registration and routing.

8.  **Elastic Beanstalk:**

    - Platform as a Service (PaaS) offering that simplifies the deployment and management of applications, automatically handling infrastructure details.

9.  **SNS (Simple Notification Service):**

    - Fully managed messaging service that enables the sending of messages and notifications to a distributed set of recipients.

10. **SQS (Simple Queue Service):**

    - Fully managed message queuing service that facilitates the decoupling of the components of a cloud application.

### Overview of AWS Resource Types:

Terraform allows you to define AWS resources using its syntax. Let's explore examples for some key AWS resources:

1.  **EC2 Instance:**

    ```hcl
    resource "aws_instance" "example_instance" {
    ami           = "ami-0c55b159cbfafe1f0"
    instance_type = "t2.micro"
    }
    ```

2.  **S3 Bucket:**

    ```hcl
    resource "aws_s3_bucket" "example_bucket" {
    bucket = "my-terraform-bucket"
    acl    = "private"
    }
    ```

3.  **VPC with Subnet:**

    ```hcl
    resource "aws_vpc" "example_vpc" {
    cidr_block = "10.0.0.0/16"
    }

    resource "aws_subnet" "example_subnet" {
    vpc_id                  = aws_vpc.example_vpc.id
    cidr_block              = "10.0.1.0/24"
    availability_zone       = "us-east-1a"
    }
    ```

4.  **IAM User:**

    ```hcl
    resource "aws_iam_user" "example_user" {
    name = "myuser"
    }
    ```

---
