# Role of Persistent Storage in StatefulSets

- Stateful applications are those that maintain some form of state or data across instances, and they often require reliable and persistent storage to ensure data consistency, durability, and ordered scaling.
- Persistent storage ensures the that the application remains stateful.

## Volume Mounts in Containers:

- In StatefulSets, configuring persistent storage involves defining volume mounts in pod templates.
- This allows containers within the pods to access and utilize the persistent storage attached to the StatefulSet.

**Example Volume Mounts in a StatefulSet pod template:**

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: StatefulSet
metadata:
  name: example-statefulset
spec:
  serviceName: "example"
  replicas: 3
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: example
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: webapp
          image: your-webapp-image:latest
          volumeMounts:
            - name: data-volume
              mountPath: /app/data
  volumeClaimTemplates:
    - metadata:
        name: data-volume
      spec:
        accessModes: ["ReadWriteOnce"]
        storageClassName: "your-storage-class"
        resources:
          requests:
            storage: 1Gi
```

In this example:

- The `volumeMounts` section within the container specification (`webapp`) specifies a volume named `data-volume` to be mounted at the path `/app/data` inside the container.

### Persistent Volume Claims:

StatefulSets automatically handle the creation and binding of Persistent Volume Claims (PVCs) to Persistent Volumes (PVs). The `volumeClaimTemplates` section in the StatefulSet definition defines the template for PVCs.

**Example PVC template in a StatefulSet:**

```yaml
volumeClaimTemplates:
  - metadata:
      name: data-volume
    spec:
      accessModes: ["ReadWriteOnce"]
      storageClassName: "your-storage-class"
      resources:
        requests:
          storage: 1Gi
```

In this example:

- The `volumeClaimTemplates` section specifies a template for PVCs. The StatefulSet automatically creates PVCs based on this template, and each pod gets its own unique PVC named `data-volume-<ordinal-index>`.
- The PVCs are bound to available PVs based on the defined storage class (`your-storage-class`) and access modes.

---
