# 4.1 Ansible Vault

- Ansible Vault is a tool for securely encrypting sensitive data, such as passwords or secret keys, within Ansible playbooks or roles.
- It ensures confidentiality by encrypting files containing sensitive information, providing a secure way to store and manage secret data in version-controlled environments.

## 4.1.1 Encrypting and Securing Sensitive Data

#### **Encrypting a File with Ansible Vault:**

1.  **Create an Encrypted File:**

    To create an encrypted file, use the `ansible-vault create` command. It prompts you to enter and confirm a password.

    ```bash
    ansible-vault create secret.yml
    ```

2.  **Edit the Encrypted File:**

    To edit an existing encrypted file, use the `ansible-vault edit` command. It prompts you to enter the password.

    ```bash
    ansible-vault edit secret.yml
    ```

3.  **View the Encrypted File:**

    To view the content of an encrypted file, use the `ansible-vault view` command. It prompts you to enter the password.

    ```bash
    ansible-vault view secret.yml
    ```

#### **Using Encrypted Variables in Playbooks:**

Once a file is encrypted, you can use it in Ansible playbooks to protect sensitive data.

```yaml
---
- name: Use Encrypted Variables
  hosts: web_servers
  become: yes

  vars_files:
    - secret.yml

  tasks:
    - name: Ensure sensitive data is protected
      debug:
        var: sensitive_variable
```

In this example, the `vars_files` directive includes the encrypted file, and the variables within that file can be used in the playbook.

## 4.1.2 Managing Secrets with Ansible Vault

#### **Creating Encrypted Passwords:**

- Ansible Vault can be used to generate encrypted strings for sensitive data like passwords.

  ```bash
  ansible-vault encrypt_string --vault-id @prompt 'my_secret_password'
  ```

- This command prompts for the vault password and generates an encrypted string.

#### **Using Encrypted Passwords in Playbooks:**

Once you have an encrypted password, you can use it in your playbooks.

```yaml
---
- name: Use Encrypted Password
  hosts: web_servers
  become: yes

  vars:
    db_password: !vault |
      $ANSIBLE_VAULT;1.1;AES256
      62313761353839323431303061303665343234356266383334626538393431383466383232363262
```

In this example, the `!vault` tag indicates that the variable is encrypted, and the actual encrypted password follows.
