# 1.3 Installing and Configuring Ansible

## 1.3.1. Installation: [Official Docs](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/installation_guide/installation_distros.html)

Ansible can be installed on various operating systems.

**We will be installing on Ubuntu**

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install software-properties-common
sudo add-apt-repository --yes --update ppa:ansible/ansible
sudo apt install ansible
```

**Verify Installation**

```bash
ansible --version
```

## 1.3.2. **Configuration:**

Once Ansible is installed, basic configuration involves setting up the **inventory file** and ensuring SSH connectivity to the managed nodes:

1.  **Inventory File:**

    - The inventory file (`/etc/ansible/hosts` by default) lists the managed nodes and groups them based on different criteria.
    - Example inventory file:

      ```ini
      [web_servers]
      web1 ansible_host=192.168.1.101
      web2 ansible_host=192.168.1.102

      [database_servers]
      db1 ansible_host=192.168.1.201
      ```

    - You can create custom inventory files and specify them during Ansible command execution.

2.  **SSH Configuration:**

    - Ansible relies on SSH for communication with managed nodes. Ensure that SSH keys are set up for passwordless authentication.
    - Person to remote server will have the private key and the remote server will have the public key.
    - Generate SSH key pair:

      ```bash
      ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 2048
      ```

    - Copy the public key to managed nodes:

      ```bash
      scp user@hostname:/remote/file.txt local_directory/
      ```

      ```bash
      scp john@192.168.1.100:/home/john/documents/document.txt /local/documents/
      ```

    - `john@192.168.1.100:/home/john/documents/document.txt` ---- this i want to copy

    - `/local/documents/` ---- to this location

    - send a file to remote location which is stored in my local machine. means it will copy that file to the remote location.

3.  **Ansible Configuration File:**

    - The main Ansible configuration file is located at `/etc/ansible/ansible.cfg`. It can be customized to suit specific requirements.
