# Ansible Inventories and Host Patterns

### Ansible Inventories:

**Definition:**

- An Ansible inventory is a file (or multiple files) that contains a list of hostnames or IP addresses of the servers you want to manage.
- The default location for the inventory file is **`/etc/ansible/hosts`**, but you can specify a custom inventory file using the `-i` option.

**Key Points:**

1.  **Host Entries:**

    - Each line in the inventory file represents a host and can include information such as the hostname, IP address, and additional variables.

2.  **Grouping:**

    - Hosts can be grouped into categories, making it easier to apply configurations to specific sets of servers. Groups are defined by square brackets, and hosts are listed below each group.

    ```ini
    [web_servers]
    server1 ansible_host=192.168.1.10
    server2 ansible_host=192.168.1.11

    [db_servers]
    server3 ansible_host=192.168.1.12
    ```

    **In this example:**

    - `[web_servers]` and `[database_servers]` are groups.
    - `server1`, `server2`, and `server1` are individual hosts, host names or identifiers.
    - `ansible_host` Variable, specifies the IP address of each host.

3.  **Variables:**

    - You can assign variables to hosts or groups. Variables can be used to customize configurations for specific hosts or groups.

      ```ini
      [web_servers]
      server1 ansible_host=192.168.1.10 ansible_user=webuser

      [db_servers]
      server3 ansible_host=192.168.1.12 ansible_user=dbuser
      ```

    **In this example:**

    - `ansible_user` is the variable.
    - `webuser` and `dbuser` are the values assigned to the `ansible_user` variable for the specific hosts.

4.  **Dynamic Inventories:**

    - Ansible supports dynamic inventories that can fetch host information from external sources, such as cloud providers or databases.

### Host Patterns:

**Definition:**

- Host patterns in Ansible allow you to define which hosts or groups of hosts should be the target of a particular Ansible task or **playbook**.

* **Wildcard Patterns:**

  - `*`: Matches any character.
  - `?`: Matches any single character.
  - `[]`: Matches any character within the brackets.

* **Group Patterns:**

  - `@group_name`: Targets all hosts in the specified group.

* **Exclusion Patterns:**

  - `!`: Excludes the specified hosts or groups.

#### **Examples**

1.  **Wildcard Patterns:**

    - You can use wildcards to select multiple hosts or groups. For example, `*` selects all hosts, and `web_*` selects all groups starting with "web\_".

    ```yaml
    - hosts: web_*
    tasks:
        - name: Example Task
        debug:
            msg: "This task runs on hosts in groups starting with 'web_'"
    ```

2.  **Single Host:**

    - To target a specific host, use the hostname directly.

    ```yaml
    - hosts: server1
    tasks:
        - name: Example Task
        debug:
            msg: "This task runs only on 'server1'"
    ```

3.  **Exclusion Patterns:**

    - You can use `!` to exclude certain hosts or groups.

    ```yaml
    - hosts: "*"
    tasks:
        - name: Example Task
        debug:
            msg: "This task runs on all hosts except those in 'exclude_group' group"
    when: "'exclude_group' not in group_names"
    ```

4.  **Combining Patterns:**

    - You can combine patterns using colons to create complex target selections.

    ```yaml
    - hosts: "web_servers:!server1"
    tasks:
        - name: Example Task
        debug:
            msg: "This task runs on all 'web_servers' except 'server1'"
    ```
