# 1.5 Ansible Ad-Hoc Commands

## **Ad-Hoc Commands:**

Ad-hoc commands in Ansible allow you to perform quick, one-time tasks without the need for writing full playbooks. They are especially useful for tasks that don't require complex automation or for troubleshooting purposes.

## **Basic Syntax:**

The basic syntax for an ad-hoc command is:

```bash
ansible [pattern] -m [module] -a "[module_options]"
```

- **Pattern:** Specifies the hosts or groups to target (similar to host patterns in inventory).
- **Module:** The module to execute on the selected hosts.
- **Module Options:** Additional parameters or options required by the module.

## `-m` vs `-a`

- `-m` specifies the module, and `-a` provides arguments to that module in Ansible ad-hoc commands.

- **`-m` (module):**

  - Specifies the Ansible module to execute on remote hosts.
  - Defines the task or action.
    Example:

    ```bash
    ansible all -m ping
    ```

    In this example, the `-m ping` specifies the `ping` module, which is a basic module used for checking host reachability.

- **`-a` (arguments):**

- Provides arguments to the specified module.
- Arguments depend on the chosen module.
  Example:

  ```bash
  ansible web_servers -m apt -a 'name=nginx state=present' -b
  ```

  Here, `-a 'name=nginx state=present'` provides arguments to the `apt` module. It specifies that the package named "nginx" should be present on the remote hosts.

## **Example Ad-Hoc Commands:**

1.  **Ping all hosts:**

    ```bash
    ansible all -m ping
    ```

    - This command uses the `ping` module to check connectivity to all hosts.

2.  **Gather facts from a specific host:**

    ```bash
    ansible web1 -m setup
    ```

    - The `setup` module gathers system information (facts) from the specified host (`web1`).

3.  **Install a package on all web servers:**

    ```bash
    ansible web_servers -m apt -a "name=nginx state=present"
    ```

    - This command uses the `apt` module to install the Nginx package on hosts in the `web_servers` group.

4.  **Execute a shell command:**

    ```bash
    ansible web_servers -m shell -a "uptime"
    ```

    - This command uses the `shell` module to execute the `uptime` command on hosts in the `web_servers` group.

Ad-hoc commands provide a quick way to perform tasks, but for more complex scenarios, playbooks are the preferred approach. Playbooks allow you to define multiple tasks, manage dependencies, and ensure idempotency.

---
